npm --version
9.5.1


If you are running an old version of NPM then it is quite easy to update it to the latest version. Just use the following command from root −

$ sudo npm install npm -g

npm install <Module Name>

npm install express

Now you can use this module in your js file as following −

var express = require('express');

Global vs Local Installation

By default, NPM installs any dependency in the local mode. Here local mode refers to the package 
installation in node_modules directory lying in the folder where Node application is present. 
Locally deployed packages are accessible via require() method.

npm install express -g

This will produce a similar result but the module will be installed globally.

Using package.json

package.json is present in the root directory of any Node application/module and is 
used to define the properties of a package. 

Attributes of Package.json
name − name of the package

version − version of the package

description − description of the package

homepage − homepage of the package

author − author of the package

contributors − name of the contributors to the package

dependencies − list of dependencies. NPM automatically installs all the dependencies 
mentioned here in the node_module folder of the package.

repository − repository type and URL of the package

main − entry point of the package

keywords − keywords

Uninstalling a Module

Use the following command to uninstall a Node.js module.

$ npm uninstall express

Once NPM uninstalls the package, you can verify it by looking at the content of 
/node_modules/ directory or type the following command −

$ npm ls

Updating a Module

Update package.json and change the version of the dependency to be updated and run the following command.

$ npm update express

Search a Module

Search a package name using NPM.

$ npm search express

Create a Module

Creating a module requires package.json to be generated. Let's generate package.json 
using NPM, which will generate the basic skeleton of the package.json.

$ npm init

$ npm adduser

$ npm publish